REVIEWER 1.


The authors would like to thank the reviewer for the time spent reading the
manuscript and providing constructive feedback. Description of the updates
following the recommendations of the reviewer are shown below.


1. Abstract: Please replace the term “Bioinformatics data” with “largescale
dataset” or “high-throughput datasets”.


-Updated.




2. In the introduction section please add text describing the differences
between ML, DL and AI. In introduction, it is not clear if this article is all
about AI or ANN or ML. Please clearly define the objective of this Manuscript.


We have added a few sentences in the 'Introduction' section of the manuscript
 describing the differences between ML, DL and AI, and defining
the objective of the manuscript.




3. Line 65: ‘diffent’, is it a typo?Also, it doesn't have to be bioinformatics
data. Please remove the word ‘bioinformatics’


The typo has been corrected and the word has been removed.




4. Line 65. “The data and labels can be of…” in the subsequent sentence only
labels are described, not the data. Please remove the word “data”. Authors
might want to add an additional sentence that data points, i.e. xi can be
ordinal, continuous or integer.


The word data has been removed, and only labels is left in this specific and subsequent
 sentences clarifying the meaning as suggested by the reviewer.  




5.  Line 115, some readers might be curious how weights are defined in ANN.
Please add appropriate text to add details. I believe weights are the most
important part and often remain under-described in most of the manuscripts.


We have added two sentences defining in more details the  ANN weights.
" The weights in artificial neural networks represent the strength of connections
between neurons. They determine the impact of input signals on the final output..."



6. The entire manuscript is a technical description of deep learning-”How it
works”. However, it has no meaningful details with respect to bioinformatics.
In the manuscript itself, authors mentioned that bioinformatics datasets are
different from regular datasets (abstract). However, it is not clear what those
differences are and how deep learning can help us in solving the challenges
associated with bioinformatics dataset.


The authors fully agree with the reviewer on this comment. Under the light of
this feedback - comments, and while re-assessing the manuscript, the authors
concluded that majority (largest sections 2-3) are focused on the structure,
function and mathematical - theoretical principles of Artificial Neural
Networks. We have therefore adjusted the shorter sections where the
bioinformatics applications are mostly mentioned in the Title / Summary /
Abstract / Introduction (section 1) and conclusion (section 4), to reflect this
fact. 


The value of the manuscript is in explaining the underlying structures of
Artificial Intelligence in its implementation as Artificial Neural Networks
(ANNs) - Deep Learning Algorithms. The authors believe that this provides value
both for bioinformaticians (who in many aspects are algorithmically /
computationally thinking biologists), to understand the biological principles
and paradigms that Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Deep Learning
algorithms are based on. Furthermore, the explanation of the underlying ANNs
structure and mathematical principles of operation, can help bioinformaticians
(and biologists who have interest), to understand better Artificial
Intelligence and potentially utilize it as application to their own research as
data. As the authors are bioinformaticians and biologists themselves, the
manuscript was also written targeting a similar audience which we understand,
communicate and collaborate daily with, instead for example the authors being
computer scientists and writing for that audience. The technical content of ANN
mathematical / algorithmic principles presented in formal but easy to
understand by non-experts in sections 2-3, we believe something similar is not
present in the bioinformatics literature and provides value for a
bioinformaticians / technically oriented biologists, who are interested to
understand the theoretical and algorithmic underpinnings of Artificial Neural
Networks (ANNs) and Deep Learning algorithms.


7. The title of the manuscript includes “Bioinformatics Applications”, which
are also missing in the manuscript. I suggest authors to implement and describe
a small bioinformatics case study with publicly available real datasets.


As mentioned in response to comment no.6 above, since the majority of the
manuscript is focused on the structure, function and mathematical - theoretical
principles of Artificial Neural Networks. Therefore, rather than providing a
case study some bioinformatics commercial applications were included (see
comment no. 8 below).


8. I also suggest authors to compile the list of commercial achievements made
using AI in the field of genomics, epigenomics, 3D structure modeling or
drug-development.


Two sentences have been added at the “Conclusion” section of the manuscript
regarding commercial applications, along with the relevant additional citations
at the end of the article. We wrote this addition to be brief, in order to keep
the focus of our manuscript to the mathematical - theoretical principles of
Artificial Neural Networks that was our intention with the writing, and not to
expand the review to multiple directions and to a larger volume that will
render it indigestible by the audience.






REVIEWER 2.


The authors would like to thank the reviewer for the time spent reading the
manuscript and providing constructive feedback. Description of the updates
following the recommendations of the reviewer are shown below.


In regards to the reviewer comment “First, why are they conducting this review?
That should solve a problem in the field of inquiry. The difficulties of the
future of bioinformatics applications need to be addressed. It is essential to
emphasize the contributions made by this review to the proposed field of
application.


The value of the manuscript is in explaining the underlying structures of
Artificial Intelligence in its implementation as Artificial Neural Networks
(ANNs) - Deep Learning Algorithms. The authors believe that this provides value
both for bioinformaticians (who in many aspects are algorithmically /
computationally thinking biologists), to understand the biological principles
and paradigms that Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Deep Learning
algorithms are based on. Furthermore, the explanation of the underlying ANNs
structure and mathematical principles of operation, can help bioinformaticians
(and biologists who have interest), to understand better Artificial
Intelligence and potentially utilize it as application to their own research as
data. As the authors are bioinformaticians and biologists themselves, the
manuscript was also written targeting a similar audience which we understand,
communicate and collaborate daily with, instead for example the authors being
computer scientists and writing for that audience. 


“The author(s) must discuss the limitations of ANN and ML. The best way to
summarize the current goal is to conduct a review. Thus, a synopsis of ANN and
ML techniques and examples of their application must be included. Finally, how
does this review differ from others that have been conducted? The paper could
benefit from better word choice, phrasing, and even overall structure”


The goal of this review was to present the technical content of ANN
mathematical / algorithmic principles, in formal but easy to understand by
non-experts / biologists and bioinformatics developers. We also   believe
something similar is not present in the bioinformatics literature and provides
value for a bioinformaticians / technically oriented biologists, who are
interested to understand the theoretical and algorithmic underpinnings of
Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Deep Learning algorithms.






REVIEWER 3.


The authors would like to thank the reviewer for the time spent reading the
manuscript and providing constructive feedback. Description of the updates
following the recommendations of the reviewer are shown below.


As the reviewer noted “This paper is a survey of the theoretical underpinnings
of artificial neural Networks.”


1. if it has a survey so more work and related work is missing, we can't do a
survey on machine learning and ANN with only 11 references;


The value of the manuscript is in explaining the underlying structures of
Artificial Intelligence in its implementation as Artificial Neural Networks
(ANNs) - Deep Learning Algorithms. The authors believe that this provides value
both for bioinformaticians (who in many aspects are algorithmically /
computationally thinking biologists), to understand the biological principles
and paradigms that Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and Deep Learning
algorithms are based on. Furthermore, the explanation of the underlying ANNs
structure and mathematical principles of operation, can help bioinformaticians
(and biologists who have interest), to understand better Artificial
Intelligence and potentially utilize it as application to their own research as
data. As the authors are bioinformaticians and biologists themselves, the
manuscript was also written targeting a similar audience which we understand,
communicate and collaborate daily with, instead for example the authors being
computer scientists and writing for that audience. The technical content of ANN
mathematical / algorithmic principles presented in formal but easy to
understand by non-experts in sections 2-3, we believe something similar is not
present in the bioinformatics literature and provides value for a
bioinformaticians / technically oriented biologists, who are interested to
understand the theoretical and algorithmic underpinnings of Artificial Neural
Networks (ANNs) and Deep Learning algorithms.


2. and if you consider this paper as a research paper I can't find any
contribution or anything;


This is not a research manuscript, and the purpose and target of the review is
clarified in the response to comment 1 above.


As the reviewer noted “Please put more effort into the organization of your
paper and above all avoid very long paragraphs and redundancies and add more
work in the section related work and a comparative study between the existence”


We have re-structured the text to break long into shorter paragraphs, and
removed redundancies in the text. Material has been added at the “Conclusion”
section of the manuscript regarding applications, along with the relevant
additional citations at the end of the article.
